well the Biden Administration is
delaying the sale of 27,000 us made
rifles to Israel because of concerns
about increasing attacks by Israeli
settlers on Palestinians in the occupied
West Bank for more on this we can go
over now to Heidi Joe Castro joins us
now live from Washington DC so Heidi do
we know what the US officials want in
terms of commitments from Israel on this
issue yeah Sammy what the US
Administration says is it wants more
assurance from the Israeli government
that these military style rifles will
not ultimately end up in the hands of
extremist Israeli settlers to be used in
the occupied West Bank now the history
of this shipment is that initially it
was requested by the Israeli police in
the first days of this war and it was
agreed to by the Joe bid Administration
in fact these 27,000 rifles had already
cleared the first hurdle of
preliminary uh approval from the
Committees in Congress but suddenly then
the B Administration said let's hold off
because of this concern as the violence
against Palestinians in the occupied
West Bank has increasingly escalated and
this of course follows on the heels of
the US administration's decision to
issue visa restrictions against uh some
a few dozen people who are associated
with the settler violence and after many
calls from Joe Biden and other top us
officials calling on Israel to do more
to limit this extremist violence against
Palestinians uh by the hands of the
settlers all right we'll leave it there
thanks so much Heidi Joe
Castro